Are you Charlotte?
Yes.
Hi, welcome. And John?
I'm John.
A warm welcome to the Regulations Review Committee to you both.
Thank you.
We've only got 20 minutes with you.
I think what we're really hoping to get from you today is a sense of what is going
on in the industry.
We've written to you and expressed our concern around the way that the exemption
notices have been applied. But of course, there will always be a reasonable test,
which is about what's going on for people.
Mm-hmm.
What kind of challenges are you facing?
We'll also be interested in whether you think the rules fit the
current climate that you're in.
I'll pass over to you, and then we'll open up for questions.
Okay. So by way of explanation, I'm the DCE responsible for essentially
policy and international relations.
And Charlotte's one of our policy managers who's had extensive experience with the
exemptions process within the authority.
To answer your first question, what's going on within the sector?
We have a fundamental problem.
Part 141 organizations, so certificated training
organizations in aviation,
there are none currently offering dangerous goods training.
Dangerous goods training is critical for certain types of air transport
operation,
as it essentially allows the people who are conducting those operations to
understand how they should handle certain types of dangerous goods in
order to make them safe in flight.
So on one hand, it sounds like a relatively straightforward thing.
On the other hand, it's actually very nuanced and quite technical.
So without the right kind of training and the right kind of knowledge, certain
types of safety risk can eventuate and have eventuated in some cases.
The lowest level form of that is the sorts of things you hear currently about power
banks, for example, catching fire in cabins.
If they were to do so in the hold of an aircraft, there is no means to
extinguish those fires. So it would almost certainly be a total loss of the
aircraft. But there are other things, and a good example is the
carrying of certain types of medicine.
So for example,
radioactive substances used in the treatment of cancers in the country.
Virtually all of those are flown in from Australia.
There are certain things we export back out of the country.
Again, they need to be handled in the right way.
So by way of context, it's technically a complex area with
no certificated organizations currently training in that domain.
So the dilemma the authority faces is essentially can we find some pathways
to enable people to gain the basic knowledge they need in
order to discharge their roles in the aviation system in an appropriate
way.
The International Air Transport Association, IATA,
works very closely with the International Civil Aviation Organization to
effectively set global standards for these things that we adhere to as a state.
And their training package, in our view, is essentially equivalent
to that that we would expect a certificated Part 141 organization to
deliver. So it means people in New Zealand have a means of
accessing a training curricula and a series of
information to at least gain the requisite knowledge for a period of time until
such time as an organization chooses to either step into that space or we
find some other delivery mechanisms.
Just let me clarify that.
Yeah.
So
why is that not suitable as a full
certification?
IATA does not exist in New Zealand as a certificated organization.
Right.
So we are essentially saying the thing they offer internationally, it's
a globally based offering.
Yeah.
We are prepared to accept it, essentially saying it maintains and
meets the intention and requirements specified in the rule.
Why can't you designate IATA? Like-
Essentially, that's what the exemption does. It says IATA does it.
Unless IATA applies to become a certificated organization and
fulfill all the requirements around being a Part 141 organization,
we can't simply designate it.
Right. So they won't come to
you for a designation?
No. It's
simply not something they tend to do anywhere in the world.
Right. I see. So how have other similar jurisdictions dealt
with that?
We're in a relatively unusual situation.
Most larger countries have training organizations offering
the requisite kind of courses.
Smaller states than us tend to rely on either other states providing
those courses on their behalf or the IATA system.
Okay.
Yeah. So with smaller states, do their
people go overseas for the training or do-
Some do.
Okay.
Some do. So some of the Pacific Island states, for example, they will send their
people into Singapore, where there's a national training academy, for a
fee, for a price, and they will go through appropriate
training and their jurisdictions then recognize the training.
We have had no one ask us to take that path, to my knowledge.
I don't think we have at this point in time.
We can clarify that for the committee if it so wishes.
But the point remains we've tried to make it the most accessible
mechanism possible that really keeps some of the costs down.
So this is an electronic training aid.
So they don't have to travel. They can do it from the comfort of their own office
if that's what they wish, or they can club together and do it from a common place.
But
we haven't had the request to go overseas, to my knowledge.
How long has this been the case?
We've had
training organizations decrease in the dangerous goods area probably for the
last 10 years or so.
The exemption came into place in '25.
At one point, the CAA was offering its own training as
a bridge between the two things.
So we've had this problem essentially for the last four, maybe five years
sort of post-COVID.
A lot of the training organizations have suffered to maintain financial
viability in a number of areas. They simply don't have the demand.
So since
We can say 22-ish. Yeah
22. Okay.
With the CAA offering its own training, was it offering the
IATA product with-
We were using IATA and a number of other things as a way of offering an
equivalent-
Okay
... training. We didn't use the IATA package directly.
We would've had to pay them a certain royalty and a fee.
Okay.
So we modeled certain things, or certain things they have in the public domain
that we can pick up and use.
Yeah.
Yeah. Just
I may have not picked it up on what you're saying, but was there another way that
you could've addressed this
issue instead of exempting everyone to complete the rules?
So in terms of, we don't believe there is a way of exempting
people doing certain roles in the system from DG training.
The criticality of that's too high.
The rule is structured in such a way that those individuals have to get trained.
So if we were to say there was a lesser standard, in our view, we would
introduce a risk into the system we think is not acceptable in the context of
the potential harms dangerous goods could do to an aircraft or the
people-
Yeah. If I could just jump in there because the information we...
I actually wasn't here when this was considered previously, but I see that the
instrument purported to exempt everyone are obligated to complete the rules
requirement in the first place with the condition that is least person complete
alternative training.
Yes.
So the question looked like an unusual, unexpected use
of power. And so the question is if there's another way that you could achieve the
same objective, or whether you need a change in these empowering
legislation or the secondary legislation.
So there's a possibility we need to look at revising the rule.
You may not be aware, there's a thing called a rules update program in train now,
of which this rule will be one that's examined.
We did not think at the time there was an alternative pathway that would achieve
the intention of the rule or the requirements that we are subject to other than
the path we've gone down. So we didn't identify an alternative viable
pathway.
But it's important to understand the current rule places the obligation on a
person to be trained. It gives them two choices for that training, either
through something called a Part 119 organization, or which is
essentially their employer if they're an airline, or through a
certified training organization, a Part 141 organization.
Not all Part 119 organizations have the scale, frankly,
to offer the training. Air New Zealand might do, for sake of example,
but a smaller airline will almost certainly not have the capability to do
that. So we needed to find a third path.
Okay.
Have you subsequently gone back and
taken a sort of first principles look at this following our correspondence and
said, "Hey, do you think there's another way to achieve it?"
As I say, it's in train with respect to the rules update program, but I can't
tell you off the top of my head. That's somewhere in the next 18 months worth of
work.
In the next 18 months?
Yeah.
Okay.
Somewhere in that window. We can confirm the current timing for that.
That would be great if you could write back to us.
Yeah. I think we can do that.
Was there any organization that did do the training in the
past?
There have been organizations in the past that have done the requisite training,
and the majority of them have pulled out of the training either because they
cannot maintain the expertise
or they simply haven't been able to make it a viable business option.
And
do, for example, Australian
training courses provide the
necessary
training that you'd be after?
To an equivalent standard? Not in all cases, no.
Why is that?
It's the way the rules are structured between countries, so there are
some not insignificant differences.
It's also the way Australians handle dangerous goods within their system.
They have some different underlying approaches to that that's been adopted by New
Zealand for quite some time.
However, it's not a blanket no grant.
There will be some elements of the dangerous goods training in Australia which
would be equally applicable here.
But again, no one within the sector has sought,
to my knowledge,
to utilize Australian facilities for any form of dangerous goods
training. To my knowledge.
One of the conditions we've placed on the exemption itself is that not only do they
have to complete an IATA course, but they also need to have
provided training specific to the New Zealand situation.
Mm-hmm.
So on our New Zealand roles and our New Zealand legislation.
So that's why overseas courses wouldn't be a complete one for one swap
for the 119 or 141 training operations.
Just give me an example of something that would be so different here to
overseas-
Jurisdictions?
Yeah.
Yeah. So we, for example, in our smaller airlines, they are
certificated under, to give the rule part numbering, rule
part 135.
New Zealand's rules are, relatively speaking, more
performance-based in design than rules overseas, so there's less
inherent prescription in the rule itself,
which gives more flexibility that enables operators to
do different things in different ways.
If you're going to be carrying dangerous goods, so for example, you are
taking people into a hut and you're carrying an LPG cylinder
on a helicopter. That's a dangerous good.
Our rules are permissive of that.
Very few rules in the rest of the world are.
So in a sense, our rules are more open to people doing novel things,
but with certain controls wrapped around them than you will see in most overseas
jurisdictions, which are much more prescriptive and limited, fundamentally.
Okay.
Hmm.
Dr. Lara Tean.
Thank you, Chair. Thank you so much for coming.
Apologies for being a little bit late.
Apologies if this has been covered, but I really want to check in terms of the
retrospectivity aspect of
this. I guess two questions around that.
Number one is,
I think the Gazette wasDated to July
2025, but the period is April to June 2025.
So
how would that work in terms of the retrospective element?
But I think the other one is based on your response as well.
You mentioned that revoking the exemption at this stage would
risk adverse safety outcomes by leaving a significant number of operators without
a viable means of meeting their training obligation.
Yeah.
That was a year ago, though.
Yes.
So what has been happening? They were exempted for three months.
No, the exemption exists for a five-year period.
Ah, okay.
So it expires on the 30th of June 2030, from memory.
Yeah.
The exemption came into force, I forget the specific date that it came into
force, but it came into force at a particular point in time.
So the exemptions are terminating or for a finite life.
Yeah. I guess I want to pick up on the safety component.
Yes.
Because you said that these will have adverse safety outcomes-
Yes
... if they not continue to be exempted.
But this could be an incorrect assumption, but if
they don't have the training to handle dangerous goods-
Mm-hmm
... what then would it be the safety concerns overall of
not having people who-
So the issue is the folks who manage dangerous goods on the aircraft
have relatively deep knowledge of how to handle dangerous goods safely.
Okay.
In other words, how to mitigate the risk of the dangerous good becoming
dangerous in flight.
Yeah.
And so the issue of them not having the base training requirements on how to
handle, for example, lithium-ion batteries-
Mm-hmm
... or LPG cylinders or certain types of medicine-
... is that the
good itself becomes dangerous in flight.
Mm.
And for the most part, once in flight, there is nothing that can be done.
So unless you mitigate the risk before it gets on board, and the way it's managed
once it is on board, there is very little way of controlling
something that's gone wrong if it goes wrong on board.
So easiest example of that is comes back to things like lithium-ion
battery power banks.
That's the one I'm thinking of. Yeah.
If they are in that with a thermal runway and they burst into flames,
they are essentially unable to be put out on an aircraft.
There are flameproof boxes they try and use to contain it, and the
aircraft will then try to get to the ground as soon as possible.
If that was to occur in the hold, there is no way of managing it.
Mm.
So the dangerous goods folks are there to make sure those risks are mitigated,
either by removing the good
or by it being packaged and managed in such a way that that risk is
mitigated to a practical extent that we deem to be safe.
And it is very much good by good or type of class of good.
And just in terms of the retrospective aspect, you
may have mentioned, but I
can't see in the letter about why you've decided to retrospectively
exempt for the periods before the issue of the Gazette.
I can speak to that one.
Okay.
So this particular exemption came into force
on the 1st of July 2025. I think
the retrospective ones are actually in relation to our
what we call individual exemptions, where we're required once per
quarter to gazette all exemptions that we've issued in the previous
quarter.
Mm.
So that would be why it appears to be retrospective.
It's just a requirement under our act to gazette-
Exemptions
... all exemptions once per quarter.
Joe Mooney, one last question.
Thank you. Just on the notified individual exemptions again.
Slightly different question, but-
Okay
... I'm just interested that
the issue that your organization had was the same one as the Maritime New Zealand
had.
Yes.
And what the
process is for sort of looking at these things.
And I appreciate it can be helpful to have some more legally engaged minds looking
at this, because none of us are perfect by a long stretch.
But what is it? Is it currently a
sort of folder in the office and people looking at it, or do you have
systems online? And if you do, then are you having an information
sharing
mechanism with other organizations who are sort of doing similar things in this
space and/or yourselves? And sort of-
Yeah
... and also that institutional knowledge-
... ensuring that that carries on forwards.
So we have a dangerous goods specialist on staff.
He's a chief advisor related specifically to dangerous goods.
He has close relationships with other regulators in New Zealand, like Maritime,
NZTA,
some of the health organizations as well.
He also has extremely close relationships with our international compatriots.
Through that individual in that role, we're able to access a huge amount of
information, but there's also an awful lot of collaborative work going on.
It's not a unique problem to us, as you've identified with Maritime.
It's not a unique problem to us in a global sense either.
There is a relative
paucity of good training material, aside from
IATA and the odd country that's doing it quite well.
So part of Jim's work, the specialist, is to ensure we have that
collaboration and coordination.
He's very actively involved in both the domestic and the international arena,
and we're slowly moving towards ways of finding solutions.
The caveat to that is the kinds of risks that we're concerned about are materially
different to some of the issues in the maritime environment and/or the land
environment. And where it gets complicated is when those three modes kind of
collide together in various ways.
So we've got to find ways of making sure we don't-
Institutional knowledge
... create a mismatch. Mm-hmm.
Institutional knowledge experts.
Is that all in his head or is it-
No. It's very well documented. We have good systems in that
regard, and he has a number of people-
In paper or digital?
Both.
Just a very brief question before you go.
Yeah.
And really appreciate your time today.
It's a pleasure.
A breach of the condition that requires the
IATA training-
Mm-hmm
... is that the same-- Does that have the same consequence as not
meeting the original role?
Essentially, yes.
What is the essentially?
So the director in the act has an
obligation to weigh
the impact of the choices he makes with respect to any action on a
breach,
and that effectively relates to the chilling effect on reporting if he takes a
prosecutorial action or whether he chooses to take something more akin
to an educative or corrective action.
Whereas if you had not completed the dangerous goods
provision and had not been exempted, you would not be eligible to be-
We can still hold you to account for failing to follow up on your
obligations. We would also have an obligation to look into the
operator, the employer of the people who may not have done a
thing, and take whatever action is appropriate there, and that will depend a little
bit on their history, whether they've been a good operator by and large and this is
an aberration, or whether they have been persistently poor in their operations.
We may need to look up the chain to determine where in the
supply chain the failure began. So it's not always
where you might think. And we have to look at-
Have you taken any corrective action in the last year on this one?
I couldn't tell you off the top of my head. I don't have that information with me.
But again, we can certainly find that for you if you so wish.
That'd be great.
Yep.
Okay. Thank you so much for coming in.
It's a pleasure.
Very much appreciate it.
If there's any follow-up questions, feel free to let us know, and we'll go from
there.
I think there will be.